Copyedit security-cors.adoc (#44755)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-cors.adoc

https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
[id="security-cors"]
= Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: reference
:categories: security,web
:summary: This guide covers enabling and configuring the CORS filter, which uses HTTP headers to securely manage cross-origin browser requests.
:keywords: cors,http,configuration, security, headers
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http

> You can enable and configure the CORS filter, which uses HTTP headers to securely manage cross-origin browser requests.

Reviewer: @rolfedh I'm not sure it is correct. The filter does not manage the cors requests securily with the help of headers, it is only supports a mechanism to indicate to the browser what can be a safe CORS request... I'm not sure starting the doc with the message what this filter does is better.

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) uses HTTP headers to manage browser requests for resources from external origins securely.
By specifying permitted origins, methods, and headers, servers can enable browsers to request resources across domains while maintaining controlled access.
This mechanism enhances security and supports legitimate cross-origin requests.
For more on origin definitions, see the link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6454[Web Origin Concept].

[[cors-filter]]
== Enabling the CORS filter

To enforce CORS policies in your application, enable the Quarkus CORS filter by adding the following line to the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file:

[source, properties]
----
quarkus.http.cors=true
----

> The filter, implemented using the `jakarta.servlet.Filter` interface, intercepts all incoming HTTP requests to identify cross-origin requests and apply the configured policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The filter intercepts all incoming HTTP requests to identify cross-origin requests and apply the configured policies.
```

It then adds CORS headers to the HTTP response, informing browsers about allowed origins and access parameters.

> Finally, it forwards the response to the appropriate endpoint, such as a servlet or Jakarta REST resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For preflight requests, it returns HTTP response immediately.
For regular CORS requests, it denies an access with HTTP 403 status if the configured policy can not allow the request, or forward it to the original destination if the policy has been applied successfully.

```

> For regular CORS requests, it denies an access with HTTP 403 status if the configured policy can not allow the request, or forward it to the original destination if the policy has been applied successfully.

Author: @sberyozkin Would  it be okay to say:
```suggestion
For regular CORS requests, it denies access with an HTTP 403 status if the request violates the configured policy or forwards it to the destination if the policy allows it.
```

For detailed configuration options, see the following Configuration Properties section.

include::{generated-dir}/config/quarkus-vertx-http_quarkus.http.cors.adoc[leveloffset=+1, opts=optional]

== Example CORS configuration

The following example shows a complete CORS filter configuration, including a regular expression to define one of the origins.

[source, properties]
----
quarkus.http.cors=true <1>
quarkus.http.cors.origins=http://example.com,http://www.example.io,/https://([a-z0-9\\-_]+)\\\\.app\\\\.mydomain\\\\.com/ <2>
quarkus.http.cors.methods=GET,PUT,POST <3>
quarkus.http.cors.headers=X-Custom <4>
quarkus.http.cors.exposed-headers=Content-Disposition <5>
quarkus.http.cors.access-control-max-age=24H <6>
quarkus.http.cors.access-control-allow-credentials=true <7>
----

<1> Enables the CORS filter.
<2> Specifies allowed origins, including a regular expression.
<3> Lists allowed HTTP methods for cross-origin requests.
<4> Declares custom headers that clients can include in requests.
<5> Identifies response headers that clients can access.
<6> Sets how long preflight request results are cached.
<7> Allows cookies or credentials in cross-origin requests.

> The `/https://([a-z0-9\\-_]+)\\\\.app\\\\.mydomain\\\\.com/` pattern functions as a regular expression due to the enclosing forward slashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
